It's time to write some code nickel.
So in the repository,
there is a public folder.
And in that folder, we have assets, okay?
It's a zip file.
If you unzip the file,
you will get some PNG that we
will use in a couple of minutes.
And also,
you will get into a kotlin 101 folder.
Where we're going to do now, is to
open Android Studio into that folder.
It's not actually an Android project.
This is actually a couple of
files with extension, kts.
By the way, Kotlin files are kt files.
Kts, what's that?
The SL from scratch,
it got a scratch file.
What's an A scratch file?
It's actually a file to play with Kotlin
without actually making an App, okay?
That's kind of idea.
You can open that by the way
if you want in VS code or
any other IDE that you
want in this example only.
For Android development,
we will actually need Android Studio.
But for these files, you can open
this in Android Studio if you want,
just to see and play with [INAUDIBLE].
In Android Studio, you can open and
then you go directly into the folder.
This case I have it into assets,
and write Kotlin101.
It will look like this.
So you have a list of files, and then with
the tip of the day that I don't want,
and then the code on the other side.
So, here we are going to
just see some code and
also if you want, you can run Kotlin go.
That is like a playground.
It's a place to play with Kotlin
without actually making an App, okay?
So basic expressions,
Kotlin code looks like JavaScript or
any modern language when you first see it.
So, if I throw you some Kotlin code,
you will understand most of it
without even doing any explanation.
So, I will just sham directly into
the differences and really quickly
over the things that are usual,
where all similarities to other language.
So, Kotlin looks like any other language.
For example, semi colons, semi colons
out they are, but they are optional.
And I can say that 99% of the time,
you're not going to use semicolons.
You use semicolons only when
you have two expressions,
two sentences in the same line.
And that's not something you
wanna do actually, okay?
So, your grade variables as you can
see really quickly with bar, so
that's actually pretty
straightforward as with JavaScript.
But we'll get into data types and
all that stuff in a minute.
Boolean conditions, they need parentheses.
So for example,
if you're coming from other languages.
Python, Ruby, Swift,
here have in mind that this is like
JavaScript or C or other C based or
C syntax languages.
You need parentheses on if,
on while, on for.
Print and print line,
print will send a message to the console,
print line will send a message and
grade the new line.
One big important thing here, when we
are using print to talk to the console,
the console is not the phone, okay?
The console is an invisible part of
your App, of the operating system.
And Android does not support
printing without a new line.
So, actually when you do print,
it goes to a buffer until you
do at least one print line.
When you do a last print line,
you will see that on the screen.
Meaning that if you're sending print
messages, you're not going to see those
messages in the console, until you send
a newline character or a print line, okay?
Have that in mind.
When you're doing console Koltin
applications, you can use print and
it works, okay?
But on Android,
we are running on different
operating system with its own rules.
So, in terms of style guidelines,
variable function and
package names are using camel case.
What's a package?
Similar to Java package or
similar to namespaces in dot net or
PHP, it's a way to group co,
under a name, okay?
All of them are using camel case.
So, we start with lowercase and
then we go uppercase, you know the deal.
Constant names, okay?
They're using UPPER SNAKE CASE.
That is, for example, this one Max bank.
We will talk about this in a minute,
like conspire, what is that?
No worry for that.
And data types, they use title case,
as in JavaScript, Java and
many other things like a class an object
that we don't know what that is yet,
but let's say that,
it's a type interfaces.
Also objects that are represented
in singleton's with 10,
to use also title case.
So we start with uppercase.
These are just guidelines,
of course no one is gonna
enforce you these ideas, okay?
Just guidelines.
Something interesting is that
conditionals are expressions.
So, you can call a function and
put an if inside the function, okay?
And this is different to other languages.
Probably you are used to like I know,
less than 2,
else more or equals to 2,
something like that.
This is perfectly valid in Kotlin.
So, this is actually replacing the ternary
operator that probably you're used to.
The ternary operator is not available
here, you need to use if instead.
It's just a ternary operator
with a different syntax, okay?
Makes sense.
We don't have a switch,
but we do have a when,
that it's acting like the switch, okay?
And it's even more powerful.
We use when and then different cases.
On each case we use this one known as
a thin arrow, dash and greater than.
And we can have one line,
we can have a code block and
there is no need for a break, okay?
There is an automatic break here going on,
we can also use ranges,
multiple values and
even we can use operators, for
example in this case,
asking about the data type of something.
else it's what we are used to as
default on other languages, okay?
It's just that when you get
used to that not a big deal.
Loops,
>> It goes through all of them, right?
So, it can go through multiple cases,
right?
Question so, what if you wanna
go with multiple multiple cases?
By default it's not going
through multiple cases, okay?
Because when you they realized when they
created code in the language that most of
the time, we are using the switch or their
use case the when, for exclusive options.
But if you want,
you can request a for through.
So the for, so it's the other way around,
instead of breaking,
you are going to say that you wanna
continue on the next one, okay?
And in that case, you use for through, so
you can request explicitly that you
wanna move to the next case, okay?
Loops, we have the standard while, so
it's just while, as you know, okay?
Don't do this at home, but well true.
And the for, we only have for
in as an option.
If you wanna use the all for
I equals zero, I less than,
I++, you can use the ranges, like this,
a range is some kind of a little
collection on the fly, okay?
It's not exactly collection, but
it seems like that here, okay?
So, in this case zero to 10 without 10,
okay?
So, these will print 10,
0 to 10 ,sorry 0 to 9, okay?
Simple, that simple.